.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii ZombieMaster.1
.\.
.TH ZombieMaster 1 "PCS Testing Tools"
.SH NAME ZombieMaster \- A graphical control panel for load generators
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B java -jar ZombieMaster.jar 
.B xxx
.BI [--title= string ]
.BI [--bsize= # ]
.BI [--length= # ]
.BI [--scale= # ]
.BI [--rate= # ]
.BI [--wire= file ]
.BI [--update= # ]
.BI [--zombies= # ]
.B  [ --DEBUG ]
.BI [ scenario-file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ZombieMaster
is a GUI control panel for a configurable number of
.B loadgen
load generation zombies.
With it, one can set the parameters of a load generation run (operational
mode, maximum desired per-thread throughput, block size, maximum file
size), adjust the number of load generation threads
run by each load generation zombie, and display the current (and recorded)
aggregate throughput.
.P
Any of the parameters can be adjusted until the
.B START
button is pressed.
.P
When the
.B STOP
button is pressed, all zombies will be instructed to shut down after
completing the current file, but the control panel will remain
on the screen so that you can view the throughput and status results.
.P
Clicking the window exit button will shut down all running zombies
(if they have not yet already shut down) and will only dismiss the
window after all have reported termination.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP --title=
This sets the title bar for the
.B ZombieMaster
GUI window.
.IP --bsize=
This switch sets the default block size to be used.
The number can be followed by an optional 'k'.
This is only a default value, and can be changed from the GUI console.
.IP --length=
This switch sets the default file length to be created.
The number can be followed by an optional 'k', 'm', or 'g'.
This is only a default value, and can be changed from the GUI console.
.IP --rate=
This switch sets the desired the per-zombie throughput, which
will be passed as a
.B --rate
parameter to each zombie.  This also (by implication) sets the
.B --wire
parameter (to the same value).
It is in bytes per second, and can be followed by an optional 'k', 'm', or 'g'.  
This is only a default value, and can be changed from the GUI console.
.IP --scale=
This switch scales the aggregate throughput plot (by setting the
full-scale value).  
It is in bytes per second, and can be followed by an optional 'k', 'm', or 'g'.  
This also (by implication) sets the
.B --wire
parameter to
.I 1/n 
of this number (where 
.I n 
is the number of configured zombies).
.IP --wire=
This switch scales the per-zombie throughput bar (by setting the
full-scale value).  
It is in bytes per second, and can be followed by an optional 'k', 'm', or 'g'.  
.IP --zombies=
For local testing (where no scenario file is requred) this option
specifies the number of local 
.B loadgen
zombie instances to be started.
.IP --update=
Set the number of seconds between throughput/status refreshes.
This parameter will also be passed on to
.B loadgen
for the frequency of status updates.
.IP --DEBUG
This switch causes all messages sent to and received from each of the
load generation zombies to be displayed to standard output.  Capturing
these will create a very complete log of the load generation session.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The primary status information is the color of the zombie status indicators:
.IP green
This zombie has responded in the affirmative to all requests and is sending
regular throughput reports.
.IP grey
This zombie has completed all of its work and exited normally.
.IP red
This zombie has reported a fatal error, and has stopped.
.IP yellow
This zombie seems to be running, but is currently achieving zero throughput
(probably because the requests are being held up at the server).
.IP blank
This zombie has not yet acknowledged the most recent command or has missed
a few throughput reports.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP LOAD_ZOMBIE_HORDE
If no scenario configuration file has been specified, this environment
variable is consulted to find the name of a default scenario configuration
file.
.SH FILES
The 
.B ZombieMaster
console provides control over general run parameters, but there is
a non-trivial amount of per-zombie configuration that must be 
supplied from a scenario configuration file.  
.P
.RS
.nf
#
# sample zombie horde configuration file
#
PARM	title="QA3 Physical Cloud"
PARM	bsize=16k
PARM	scale=600M
PARM	wire=100M
PARM	DEBUG

ZOMBIE	tag=z1	zombie=qa3-cl1  ... loadgen parameters ...
ZOMBIE	tag=z2	zombie=qa3-cl3  ... loadgen parameters ...
ZOMBIE	tag=z3	zombie=qa3-cl4  ... loadgen parameters ...
ZOMBIE	tag=z4	zombie=qa3-cl5  ... loadgen parameters ...
ZOMBIE	tag=z5	zombie=qa3-cl7  ... loadgen parameters ...
ZOMBIE	tag=z6	zombie=qa3-cl8  ... loadgen parameters ...
.fi
.RE
.IP PARM
A line that beigns with 
.B PARM
can contain any option that would be accepted on the command line.
Any option that is not recognized will be passed (prefixed with 
.BR -- )
on to all of the loadgen instances
.IP ZOMBIE
A line that begins with
.B ZOMBIE
contains parameters that will be passed to the
.B loadgen
instance ... with the exception of the
.B zombie
and
.B port
parameters, which define the IP address and port to be used to create this zombie instance.
The 
.B tag
will be passed to the 
.B loadgen
instance, but will also be used to label the status of this zombie on the
.B ZombieMaster 
GUI control panel.
.SH BUGS
.SH AUTHOR
Mark Kampe
.SH SEE ALSO
loadgen.1
